# HMO-cost-analysis
Everybody's life is centered on their health. A healthy body is necessary for every part of our existence. The ability of a person to adapt to their physical, emotional, mental, and social environments is referred to as health. Our lives are moving so quickly that we are forming many bad habits that are bad for our health. Spending a lot of money on physical activity or routine checkups helps one stay healthy, prevent becoming out of shape, and treat illnesses. When we get sick, we frequently overspend, which results in high medical costs.
So, if someone has such factors, an application that can recognize and estimate medical expenses can be created to help them understand the factors that are making them unfit and leading to high medical costs.
We did a data exploration for all the dataset attributes. Based on the researches and results we derived from our tests, we chose to continue with only 8 variables from 13 in total. After data exploration, we did data cleaning. We removed null values, removed cost column from testing data, and created another column named expensive. We divided the dataset into training and testing data. 70% training data and 30% testing. After that we used regression model, decision tree and support vector machine algorithms to create our model. Since we are required to predict a boolean output, we only compared decision tree and support vector machine. From these 2 algorithms, the best performing one was SVM with 87% while decision tree with 86%. In the end we built a shinny app to predict if health cost for a person will be expensive or not.
